#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.54cm
\topmargin 2.54cm
\rightmargin 2.54cm
\bottommargin 2.54cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
First semester final report
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Colin Diesh
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
Senior Thesis Project, Fall 2012
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Transcription factors are proteins which recognize short DNA sequences and
 bind to the DNA which can affect transcription both positively and negatively.
 Using chromatin immunoprecipitation and high throughput sequencing (ChIP-seq)
 we can identify transcription factor binding sites by finding peaks in
 the data, or where there is an excess of DNA reads from immunoprecipitation.
 Comparing ChIP-seq data from multiple experiments presents many logistic
 challenges -- different ChIP-seq experiments have may have different signal/noi
se ratios and using control experiments and normalization is important.
 In order to analyze data from differentComparing data from different genomes
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
We investigated methods for comparing transcription factor binding from
 multiple Chip-Seq experiments.
 Previous methods to identify conserved transcription factor binding sites
 from different experiments analyze different genomes separately, then look
 for binding sites in conserved locations.
 Transcription factor binding is We investigated methods for comparing transcrip
tion factor binding from multiple Chip-Seq experiments.
 We evaluated several existing techniques for ChIP-seq data analysis, and
 we propose a method for finding ChIP-seq data similarity using a normalized
 difference score to leverage conservation between related experiments.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
