#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
knitr
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing other 1.5
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.54cm
\topmargin 2.54cm
\rightmargin 2.54cm
\bottommargin 2.54cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Comparison of transcription factor finding sites from related genomes using
 ChIP-seq
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Colin Diesh
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Transcription factors play an important role in gene regulation by binding
 and interacting with DNA.
 Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP-seq) combined with high-throughput
 sequencing can be used to analyze DNA protein interactions and find transcripti
on factor binding sites.
 Recent literature has proposed that transcription factor binding sites
 have a high turnover rate between closely related organisms.
 However, the methods for identifying transcription factor binding sites
 are not directly comparable across different experiments, which leads to
 difficulties.
 We looked at yeast ChIP-seq experiments for a single transcription factor
 and found evidence for significant differential peaks using statistical
 testing.
 We used our algorithm to adjust for the differences that were identified
 on the basis of peak callers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The study of our genes, and the molecular biology therein, has uncovered
 a complex world of DNA and proteins that interact to control gene expression.
 Gene expression involves a variety of proteins to work together to initiate
 transcription.
 An important type of protein are transcription factorswhich bind to short
 sequences of the DNA and thereby regulate the nearby genes.
 Identifying the transcription factor binding sites has become an important
 problem for understanding gene regulation.
 Gene regulation studies have benefitted massively from new high throughput
 technology, including microarray and next-generation sequencing.
 These technologies are able to provide a whole- genome persepctive on gene
 regulation.
 These new platforms have given us a huge amount of data that provides a
 whole-genome perspective of this process.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Recent literature has proposed that transcription factor binding sites vary
 significantly across closely related organisms.
 These studies have compared the transcription factor binding sites from
 mouse to human 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "odom_tissue-specific_2007"

\end_inset

, from different fly species, and different strains of yeast 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "zheng_genetic_2010"

\end_inset

.
 These have concluded strikingly that the transcription factor binding sites
 change significantly between species.
 Between human and mouse, anywhere between 41-80% of binding sites for a
 particular transcritpion factor are not conserved
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "odom_tissue-specific_2007"

\end_inset

.
 Even between different individual strains of yeast, there is a high turnover
 of the transcription factor binding sites 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "zheng_genetic_2010"

\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Chromatin immunoprecipitation combined with high throughput sequencing (ChIP-seq
) is produces millions of short sequencing reads from DNA fragments that
 are associated with a particular DNA-protein interaction.
 For transcription factors, the binding sites are identified as peaks in
 the number of reads covering a DNA sequence and so these peak-finding algorithm
s have become important for analyzing this data.
 Many of the algorithms that are developed for peak finding looks only at
 one experiment and few algorithms are developed for comparing across experiment
s.
 It is is especiallay problematic because the methods for identifying transcript
ion factor binding sites across different experiments are not directly comparabl
e, which leads to difficulties in comparing these experiments.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Many of the results that show an overlap in the peaks is therefore possibly
 misguided.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We looked at yeast ChIP-seq experiments and found significant differential
 peaks using statistical tests.
 We used our algorithm to adjust for the differences that were identified
 on the basis of peak callers by for similar binding sites.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The peak finders must be sensitive enough to find real binding sites amoungst
 a level of background 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

noise
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 and they must also be discrimitive enough to reduce false positives.
 This is a classical statistical problem.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
DNA-protein interactions are shown by using chromatin immunoprecipitation.
 Chromatin immunoprecipitation uses a specific antibody to target a protein
 of interest, in our case a transcription factor, and then it targets that
 protein and links it with fragments of DNA from a cell lysate.
 The DNA-protein complex is precipitated from the mixture and the proteins
 are unlinked from the DNA fragments which results in a library of DNA fragments
 that are enriched for the binding sites we are interested in.
 The short reads are typically 20-25 base pairs (bp) and they are aligned
 to a reference genome using fast alignment algorithms.
 Overall, the ChIP-seq approach provides a whole-genome view of the transcriptio
n factors activity.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We looked at the DNA barcoding allows for multiple different experiments
 to be sequenced at the same time.
 Using this approach, transcriptin
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Chromatin immunoprecipitation works by fixing the DNA-protein complex and
 then extracting it from the cell lysate by using antibodies that target
 the protein of interest.
 The DNA-protein complex is unlinked and then the result is a sequencing
 library for DNA that are highly enriched for DNA binding sites.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We had a lot of fun
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "References"
options "bibtotoc,plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
